

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2024.sigul-1.30/]",
	 - abstract = {Societies are becoming more and more connected, and minority languages often find themselves helpless against the advent of the digital age, with their speakers having to regularly turn to other languages for written communication. This work introduces the case of Arb{\"e}resh, a southern Italian language related to Albanian. It presents the very first machine-readable Arb{\"e}resh data, collected through a web campaign, and describes a set of tools developed to enable the Arb{\"e}resh people to learn how to write their language, including a spellchecker, a conjugator, a numeral generator, and an interactive platform to learn Arb{\"e}resh spelling. A comprehensive web application was set up to make these tools available to the public, as well as to collect further data through them. This method can be replicated to help revive other minority languages in a situation similar to Arb{\"e}resh`s. The main challenges of the process were the extremely low-resource setting and the variability of Arb{\"e}resh dialects.}

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2024.rail-1.16/]",
	 - abstract = "This paper introduces a novel approach to spell checking and correction for low-resource and under-represented languages, with a specific focus on an African language, Wolof. By leveraging the capabilities of transformer models and neural networks, we propose an efficient and practical system capable of correcting typos and improving text quality. Our proposed technique involves training a transformer model on a parallel corpus consisting of misspelled sentences and their correctly spelled counterparts, generated using a semi-automatic method. As we fine tune the model to transform misspelled text into accurate sentences, we demonstrate the immense potential of this approach to overcome the challenges faced by resource-scarce and under-represented languages in the realm of spell checking and correction. Our experimental results and evaluations exhibit promising outcomes, offering valuable insights that contribute to the ongoing endeavors aimed at enriching linguistic diversity and inclusion and thus improving digital communication accessibility for languages grappling with scarcity of resources and under-representation in the digital landscape."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2024.icon-1.42/]",
	 - abstract = "India`s vast linguistic diversity presents unique challenges and opportunities for technological advancement, especially in the realm of Natural Language Processing (NLP). While there has been significant progress in NLP applications for widely spoken languages, the regional languages of India, such as Marathi and Hindi, remain underserved. Research in the field of NLP for Indian regional languages is at a formative stage and holds immense significance. The paper aims to build a platform which enables the user to use various features like text anonymization, abstractive text summarization and spell checking in English, Hindi and Marathi language. The aim of these tools is to serve enterprise and consumer clients who predominantly use Indian Regional Languages."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2024.findings-eacl.10/]",
	 - abstract = "Large language models excel in text generation and generalization, however they face challenges in text editing tasks, especially in correcting spelling errors and mistyping.In this paper, we present a methodology for generative spelling correction (SC), tested on English and Russian languages and potentially can be extended to any language with minor changes. Our research mainly focuses on exploring natural spelling errors and mistyping in texts and studying how those errors can be emulated in correct sentences to enrich generative models' pre-train procedure effectively. We investigate the effects of emulations in various text domains and examine two spelling corruption techniques: 1) first one mimics human behavior when making a mistake through leveraging statistics of errors from a particular dataset, and 2) second adds the most common spelling errors, keyboard miss clicks, and some heuristics within the texts.We conducted experiments employing various corruption strategies, models' architectures, and sizes in the pre-training and fine-tuning stages and evaluated the models using single-domain and multi-domain test sets. As a practical outcome of our work, we introduce SAGE (Spell checking via Augmentation and Generative distribution Emulation)."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2023.rail-1.1/]",
	 - abstract = "This paper presents a spell checker and correction tool specifically designed for Wolof, an under-represented spoken language in Africa. The proposed spell checker leverages a combination of a trie data structure, dynamic programming, and the weighted Levenshtein distance to generate suggestions for misspelled words. We created novel linguistic resources for Wolof, such as a lexicon and a corpus of misspelled words, using a semi-automatic approach that combines manual and automatic annotation methods. Despite the limited data available for the Wolof language, the spell checker`s performance showed a predictive accuracy of 98.31{\%} and a suggestion accuracy of 93.33{\%}.Our primary focus remains the revitalization and preservation of Wolof as an Indigenous and spoken language in Africa, providing our efforts to develop novel linguistic resources. This work represents a valuable contribution to the growth of computational tools and resources for the Wolof language and provides a strong foundation for future studies in the automatic spell checking and correction field."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2023.nodalida-1.64/]",
	 - abstract = "This paper describes the adaptation of the database system developed for the Database of Icelandic Morphology (DIM) to the Faroese language and the creation of the Faroese Morphological Database using that system from lexicographical data collected for a Faroese spellchecker project."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2022.sigul-1.25/]",
	 - abstract = "Spell checkers are an integrated feature of most software applications handling text inputs. When we write an email or compile a report on a desktop or a smartphone editor, a spell checker could be activated that assists us to write more correctly. However, this assistance does not exist for all languages equally. The Kurdish language, which still is considered a less-resourced language, currently lacks spell checkers for its various dialects. We present a trigram language model for the Sorani dialect of the Kurdish language that is created using educational text. We also showcase a spell checker for the Sorani dialect of Kurdish that can assist in writing texts in the Persian/Arabic script. The spell checker was developed as a testing environment for the language model. Primarily, we use the probabilistic method and our trigram language model with Stupid Backoff smoothing for the spell checking algorithm. Our spell checker has been trained on the KTC (Kurdish Textbook Corpus) dataset. Hence the system aims at assisting spell checking in the related context. We test our approach by developing a text processing environment that checks for spelling errors on a word and context basis. It suggests a list of corrections for misspelled words. The developed spell checker shows 88.54{\%} accuracy on the texts in the related context and it has an F1 score of 43.33{\%}, and the correct suggestion has an 85{\%} chance of being in the top three positions of the corrections."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2022.lrec-1.73/]",
	 - title = "{L}e{S}pell - A Multi-Lingual Benchmark Corpus of Spelling Errors to Develop Spellchecking Methods for Learner Language",
	 - abstract = "Spellchecking text written by language learners is especially challenging because errors made by learners differ both quantitatively and qualitatively from errors made by already proficient learners. We introduce LeSpell, a multi-lingual (English, German, Italian, and Czech) evaluation data set of spelling mistakes in context that we compiled from seven underlying learner corpora. Our experiments show that existing spellcheckers do not work well with learner data. Thus, we introduce a highly customizable spellchecking component for the DKPro architecture, which improves performance in many settings."    
    
- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2022.lrec-1.125/]",
  - abstract = "Machine learning (ML) approaches have dominated NLP during the last two decades. From machine translation and speech technology, ML tools are now also in use for spellchecking and grammar checking, with a blurry distinction between the two. We unmask the myth of effortless big data by illuminating the efforts and time that lay behind building a multi-purpose corpus with regard to collecting, mark-up and building from scratch. We also discuss what kind of language technology minority languages actually need, and to what extent the dominating paradigm has been able to deliver these tools. In this context we present our alternative to corpus-based language technology, which is knowledge-based language technology, and we show how this approach can provide language technology solutions for languages being outside the reach of machine learning procedures. We present a stable and mature infrastructure (GiellaLT) containing more than hundred languages and building a number of language technology tools that are useful for language communities."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2022.icon-main.35/]",
	 - title = "Spellchecker for {S}anskrit:The Road Less Taken",
	 - abstract = "A spellchecker is essential for any language for producing error-free content. While there exist advanced computational tools for Sanskrit, such as word segmenter, morphological analyser, sentential parser, and machine translation, a fully functional spellchecker is not available. This paper presents a Sanskrit spellchecking dictionary for Hunspell, thereby creating a spellchecker that works across the numerous platforms Hunspell supports. The spellchecking rules are created based on the Paninian grammar, and the dictionary design follows the word-and-paradigm model, thus, making it easily extendible for future improvements. The paper also presents an online spellchecking interface for Sanskrit developed mainly for the platforms where Hunspell integration is not available yet."
    
- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2022.findings-acl.69/]",
  - abstract = "Having sufficient resources for language X lifts it from the under-resourced languages class, but not necessarily from the under-researched class. In this paper, we address the problem of the absence of organized benchmarks in the Turkish language. We demonstrate that languages such as Turkish are left behind the state-of-the-art in NLP applications. As a solution, we present Mukayese, a set of NLP benchmarks for the Turkish language that contains several NLP tasks. We work on one or more datasets for each benchmark and present two or more baselines. Moreover, we present four new benchmarking datasets in Turkish for language modeling, sentence segmentation, and spell checking. All datasets and baselines are available under: \url{https://github.com/alisafaya/mukayese}"

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2022.eurali-1.15/]",
	 - abstract = {Language is an essential part of communication and culture. Documenting, digitizing, and preserving language is a meaningful pursuit. The first author of this work is a speaker of S{\"o}l`ring which is a dialect of the North Frisian language spoken on the island of Sylt in the North Frisia region of Germany. S{\"o}l`ring is estimated to have only hundreds of native speakers and very limited online language resources making it a prime candidate for language preservation initiatives. To help preserve S{\"o}l`ring and provide resources for S{\"o}l`ring speakers and learners, we built an online dictionary. Our dictionary, called friisk.org, provides translations for over 28,000 common German words to S{\"o}l`ring. In addition, our dictionary supports translations for S{\"o}l`ring to German, spell checking for S{\"o}l`ring, conjugations for common S{\"o}l`ring verbs, and an experimental transcriber from S{\"o}l`ring to IPA for pronunciations. Following the release of our online dictionary, we collaborated with neighboring communities to add limited support for additional North Frisian dialects including Fering, Halligen Frisian, Karrharder, Nordergoesharder, {\"O}{\"o}mrang, and Wiedingharder.}
 - kommentar = "stavekontrollen her er ein online-stavekontroll (mat inn eitt og eitt ord) som tar ei fullformordliste som input og foreslår ord frå lista til feilskrivne ord"

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2021.hcinlp-1.1/]",
	 - title = "Spellchecking for Children in Web Search: a Natural Language Interface Case-study",
	 - abstract = "Given the more widespread nature of natural language interfaces, it is increasingly important to understand who are accessing those interfaces, and how those interfaces are being used. In this paper, we explore spellchecking in the context of web search with children as the target audience. In particular, via a literature review we show that, while widely used, popular search tools are ill-designed for children. We then use spellcheckers as a case study to highlight the need for an interdisciplinary approach that brings together natural language processing, education, human-computer interaction to address a known information retrieval problem: query misspelling. We conclude that it is imperative that those for whom the interfaces are designed have a voice in the design process."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2021.eacl-srw.6/]",
	 - abstract = "Language Identification is the task of identifying a document`s language. For applications like automatic spell checker selection, language identification must use very short strings such as text message fragments. In this work, we reproduce a language identification architecture that Apple briefly sketched in a blog post. We confirm the bi-LSTM model`s performance and find that it outperforms current open-source language identifiers. We further find that its language identification mistakes are due to confusion between related languages."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2021.conll-1.22/]",
	 - abstract = "We consider the following tokenization repair problem: Given a natural language text with any combination of missing or spurious spaces, correct these. Spelling errors can be present, but it`s not part of the problem to correct them. For example, given: {\textquotedblleft}Tispa per isabout token izaionrep air{\textquotedblright}, compute {\textquotedblleft}Tis paper is about tokenizaion repair{\textquotedblright}. We identify three key ingredients of high-quality tokenization repair, all missing from previous work: deep language models with a bidirectional component, training the models on text with spelling errors, and making use of the space information already present. Our methods also improve existing spell checkers by fixing not only more tokenization errors but also more spelling errors: once it is clear which characters form a word, it is much easier for them to figure out the correct word. We provide six benchmarks that cover three use cases (OCR errors, text extraction from PDF, human errors) and the cases of partially correct space information and all spaces missing. We evaluate our methods against the best existing methods and a non-trivial baseline. We provide full reproducibility under \url{https://ad.informatik.uni-freiburg.de/publications}."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2021.conll-1.51/]",
	 - title = "The Influence of Regional Pronunciation Variation on Children`s Spelling and the Potential Benefits of Accent Adapted Spellcheckers",
	 - abstract = "A child who is unfamiliar with the correct spelling of a word often employs a {\textquotedblleft}sound it out{\textquotedblright} approach: breaking the word down into its constituent sounds and then choosing letters to represent the identified sounds. This often results in a misspelling that is orthographically very different to the intended target. Recently, efforts have been made to develop phonetic based spellcheckers to tackle the more deviant nature of children`s misspellings. However, little work has been done to investigate the potential of spelling correction tools that incorporate regional pronunciation variation. If a child must first identify the sounds that make up a word, it stands to reason their pronunciation would influence this process. We investigate this hypothesis along with the feasibility and potential benefits of adapting spelling correction tools to more specific language variants - particularly Irish Accented English. We use misspelling data from schoolchildren across Ireland to adapt an existing English phonetic-based spellchecker and demonstrate improvements in performance. These results not only prompt consideration of language varieties in the development of spellcheckers but also contribute to existing literature on the role of regional accent in the acquisition of writing proficiency."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2021.americasnlp-1.11/]",
	 - abstract = "We represent the complexity of Yine (Arawak) morphology with a finite state transducer (FST) based morphological analyzer. Yine is a low-resource indigenous polysynthetic Peruvian language spoken by approximately 3,000 people and is classified as {\textquoteleft}definitely endangered' by UNESCO. We review Yine morphology focusing on morphophonology, possessive constructions and verbal predicates. Then we develop FSTs to model these components proposing techniques to solve challenging problems such as complex patterns of incorporating open and closed category arguments. This is a work in progress and we still have more to do in the development and verification of our analyzer. Our analyzer will serve both as a tool to better document the Yine language and as a component of natural language processing (NLP) applications such as spell checking and correction."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2020.winlp-1.18/]",
	 - abstract = "As language and speech technologies become more advanced, the lack of fundamental digital resources for African languages, such as data, spell checkers and PoS taggers, means that the digital divide between these languages and others keeps growing. This work details the organisation of the AI4D - African Language Dataset Challenge, an effort to incentivize the creation, curation and uncovering to African language datasets through a competitive challenge, particularly datasets that are annotated or prepared for use in a downstream NLP task."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2020.readi-1.1/]",
	 - abstract = "Spell checkers and other proofreading software are crucial tools for people with dyslexia and other reading disabilities. Most spell checkers automatically detect spelling mistakes by looking up individual words and seeing if they exist in the vocabulary. However, one of the biggest challenges of automatic spelling correction is how to deal with real-word errors, i.e. spelling mistakes which lead to a real but unintended word, such as when then is written in place of than. These errors account for 20{\%} of all spelling mistakes made by people with dyslexia. As both words exist in the vocabulary, a simple dictionary lookup will not detect the mistake. The only way to disambiguate which word was actually intended is to look at the context in which the word appears. This problem is particularly apparent in languages with rich morphology where there is often minimal orthographic difference between grammatical items. In this paper, we present our novel confusion set corpus for Icelandic and discuss how it could be used for context-sensitive spelling correction. We have collected word pairs from seven different categories, chosen for their homophonous properties, along with sentence examples and frequency information from said pairs. We present a small-scale machine learning experiment using a decision tree binary classification which results range from 73{\%} to 86{\%} average accuracy with 10-fold cross validation. While not intended as a finalized result, the method shows potential and will be improved in future research."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2020.lrec-1.295/]",
	 - abstract = "We introduce the GM-RKB WikiText Error Correction Task for the automatic detection and correction of typographical errors in WikiText annotated pages. The included corpus is based on a snapshot of the GM-RKB domain-specific semantic wiki consisting of a large collection of concepts, personages, and publications primary centered on data mining and machine learning research topics. Numerous Wikipedia pages were also included as additional training data in the task`s evaluation process. The corpus was then automatically updated to synthetically include realistic errors to produce a training and evaluation ground truth comparison. We designed and evaluated two supervised baseline WikiFixer error correction methods: (1) a naive approach based on a maximum likelihood character-level language model; (2) and an advanced model based on a sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) neural network architecture. Both error correction models operated at a character level. When compared against an off-the-shelf word-level spell checker these methods showed a significant improvement in the task`s performance {--} with the seq2seq-based model correcting a higher number of errors than it introduced. Finally, we published our data and code."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2020.lrec-1.327/]",
	 - abstract = "Zamboanga Chabacano (ZC) is the most vibrant variety of Philippine Creole Spanish, with over 400,000 native speakers in the Philippines (as of 2010). Following its introduction as a subject and a medium of instruction in the public schools of Zamboanga City from Grade 1 to 3 in 2012, an official orthography for this variety - the so-called {\textquotedblleft}Zamboanga Chavacano Orthography{\textquotedblright} - has been approved in 2014. Its complexity, however, is a barrier to most speakers, since it does not necessarily reflect the particular phonetic evolution in ZC, but favours etymology instead. The distance between the correct spelling and the different spelling variations is often so great that delivering acceptable performance with the current de facto spell checking technologies may be challenging. The goals of this research have been to propose i) a spelling error taxonomy for ZC, formalised as an ontology and ii) an adaptive spell checking approach using Character-Based Statistical Machine Translation to correct spelling errors in ZC. Our results show that this approach is suitable for the goals mentioned and that it could be combined with other current spell checking technologies to achieve even higher performance."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2020.lrec-1.857/]",
	 - title = "{K}id{S}pell: A Child-Oriented, Rule-Based, Phonetic Spellchecker",
	 - abstract = "For help with their spelling errors, children often turn to spellcheckers integrated in software applications like word processors and search engines. However, existing spellcheckers are usually tuned to the needs of traditional users (i.e., adults) and generally prove unsatisfactory for children. Motivated by this issue, we introduce KidSpell, an English spellchecker oriented to the spelling needs of children. KidSpell applies (i) an encoding strategy for mapping both misspelled words and spelling suggestions to their phonetic keys and (ii) a selection process that prioritizes candidate spelling suggestions that closely align with the misspelled word based on their respective keys. To assess the effectiveness of, we compare the model`s performance against several popular, mainstream spellcheckers in a number of offline experiments using existing and novel datasets. The results of these experiments show that KidSpell outperforms existing spellcheckers, as it accurately prioritizes relevant spelling corrections when handling misspellings generated by children in both essay writing and online search tasks. As a byproduct of our study, we create two new datasets comprised of spelling errors generated by children from hand-written essays and web search inquiries, which we make available to the research community."
    
- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2020.coling-main.199/]",
    	 - abstract = "Most recent works in the field of grammatical error correction (GEC) rely on neural machine translation-based models. Although these models boast impressive performance, they require a massive amount of data to properly train. Furthermore, NMT-based systems treat GEC purely as a translation task and overlook the editing aspect of it. In this work we propose a heterogeneous approach to Chinese GEC, composed of a NMT-based model, a sequence editing model, and a spell checker. Our methodology not only achieves a new state-of-the-art performance for Chinese GEC, but also does so without relying on data augmentation or GEC-specific architecture changes. We further experiment with all possible configurations of our system with respect to model composition order and number of rounds of correction. A detailed analysis of each model and their contributions to the correction process is performed by adapting the ERRANT scorer to be able to score Chinese sentences."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/W19-4414/]",
	 - abstract = "The field of Grammatical Error Correction (GEC) has produced various systems to deal with focused phenomena or general text editing. We propose an automatic way to combine black-box systems. Our method automatically detects the strength of a system or the combination of several systems per error type, improving precision and recall while optimizing F-score directly. We show consistent improvement over the best standalone system in all the configurations tested. This approach also outperforms average ensembling of different RNN models with random initializations. In addition, we analyze the use of BERT for GEC - reporting promising results on this end. We also present a spellchecker created for this task which outperforms standard spellcheckers tested on the task of spellchecking. This paper describes a system submission to Building Educational Applications 2019 Shared Task: Grammatical Error Correction. Combining the output of top BEA 2019 shared task systems using our approach, currently holds the highest reported score in the open phase of the BEA 2019 shared task, improving F-0.5 score by 3.7 points over the best result reported."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/W19-4417/]",
	 - abstract = "We describe two entries from the Cambridge University Engineering Department to the BEA 2019 Shared Task on grammatical error correction. Our submission to the low-resource track is based on prior work on using finite state transducers together with strong neural language models. Our system for the restricted track is a purely neural system consisting of neural language models and neural machine translation models trained with back-translation and a combination of checkpoint averaging and fine-tuning {--} without the help of any additional tools like spell checkers. The latter system has been used inside a separate system combination entry in cooperation with the Cambridge University Computer Lab."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/W19-4421/]",
	 - abstract = "This paper describes the BLCU Group submissions to the Building Educational Applications (BEA) 2019 Shared Task on Grammatical Error Correction (GEC). The task is to detect and correct grammatical errors that occurred in essays. We participate in 2 tracks including the Restricted Track and the Unrestricted Track. Our system is based on a Transformer model architecture. We integrate many effective methods proposed in recent years. Such as, Byte Pair Encoding, model ensemble, checkpoints average and spell checker. We also corrupt the public monolingual data to further improve the performance of the model. On the test data of the BEA 2019 Shared Task, our system yields F0.5 = 58.62 and 59.50, ranking twelfth and fourth respectively."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/W19-4423/]",
	 - abstract = "Grammatical error correction can be viewed as a low-resource sequence-to-sequence task, because publicly available parallel corpora are limited. To tackle this challenge, we first generate erroneous versions of large unannotated corpora using a realistic noising function. The resulting parallel corpora are sub-sequently used to pre-train Transformer models. Then, by sequentially applying transfer learning, we adapt these models to the domain and style of the test set. Combined with a context-aware neural spellchecker, our system achieves competitive results in both restricted and low resource tracks in ACL 2019 BEAShared Task. We release all of our code and materials for reproducibility."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/W19-4427/]",
	 - abstract = "Considerable effort has been made to address the data sparsity problem in neural grammatical error correction. In this work, we propose a simple and surprisingly effective unsupervised synthetic error generation method based on confusion sets extracted from a spellchecker to increase the amount of training data. Synthetic data is used to pre-train a Transformer sequence-to-sequence model, which not only improves over a strong baseline trained on authentic error-annotated data, but also enables the development of a practical GEC system in a scenario where little genuine error-annotated data is available. The developed systems placed first in the BEA19 shared task, achieving 69.47 and 64.24 F$_{0.5}$ in the restricted and low-resource tracks respectively, both on the W{\&}I+LOCNESS test set. On the popular CoNLL 2014 test set, we report state-of-the-art results of 64.16 M{\texttwosuperior} for the submitted system, and 61.30 M{\texttwosuperior} for the constrained system trained on the NUCLE and Lang-8 data."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/P19-1561/]",
	 - abstract = "To combat adversarial spelling mistakes, we propose placing a word recognition model in front of the downstream classifier. Our word recognition models build upon the RNN semi-character architecture, introducing several new backoff strategies for handling rare and unseen words. Trained to recognize words corrupted by random adds, drops, swaps, and keyboard mistakes, our method achieves 32{\%} relative (and 3.3{\%} absolute) error reduction over the vanilla semi-character model. Notably, our pipeline confers robustness on the downstream classifier, outperforming both adversarial training and off-the-shelf spell checkers. Against a BERT model fine-tuned for sentiment analysis, a single adversarially-chosen character attack lowers accuracy from 90.3{\%} to 45.8{\%}. Our defense restores accuracy to 75{\%}. Surprisingly, better word recognition does not always entail greater robustness. Our analysis reveals that robustness also depends upon a quantity that we denote the sensitivity."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/D19-5522/]",
	 - abstract = "We propose a Chinese spell checker {--} FASPell based on a new paradigm which consists of a denoising autoencoder (DAE) and a decoder. In comparison with previous state-of-the-art models, the new paradigm allows our spell checker to be Faster in computation, readily Adaptable to both simplified and traditional Chinese texts produced by either humans or machines, and to require much Simpler structure to be as much Powerful in both error detection and correction. These four achievements are made possible because the new paradigm circumvents two bottlenecks. First, the DAE curtails the amount of Chinese spell checking data needed for supervised learning (to {\ensuremath{<}}10k sentences) by leveraging the power of unsupervisedly pre-trained masked language model as in BERT, XLNet, MASS etc. Second, the decoder helps to eliminate the use of confusion set that is deficient in flexibility and sufficiency of utilizing the salient feature of Chinese character similarity."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/P18-3021/]",
	 - abstract = "Spelling correction is a well-known task in Natural Language Processing (NLP). Automatic spelling correction is important for many NLP applications like web search engines, text summarization, sentiment analysis etc. Most approaches use parallel data of noisy and correct word mappings from different sources as training data for automatic spelling correction. Indic languages are resource-scarce and do not have such parallel data due to low volume of queries and non-existence of such prior implementations. In this paper, we show how to build an automatic spelling corrector for resource-scarce languages. We propose a sequence-to-sequence deep learning model which trains end-to-end. We perform experiments on synthetic datasets created for Indic languages, Hindi and Telugu, by incorporating the spelling mistakes committed at character level. A comparative evaluation shows that our model is competitive with the existing spell checking and correction techniques for Indic languages."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/2018.iwslt-1.14/]",
	 - abstract = "This paper presents Prompsit Language Engineering`s submission to the IWSLT 2018 Low Resource Machine Translation task. Our submission is based on cross-lingual learning: a multilingual neural machine translation system was created with the sole purpose of improving translation quality on the Basque-to-English language pair. The multilingual system was trained on a combination of in-domain data, pseudo in-domain data obtained via cross-entropy data selection and backtranslated data. We morphologically segmented Basque text with a novel approach that only requires a dictionary such as those used by spell checkers and proved that this segmentation approach outperforms the widespread byte pair encoding strategy for this task."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/W17-5909/]",
	 - abstract = "We present an algorithm for automatic correction of spelling errors on the sentence level, which uses noisy channel model and feature-based reranking of hypotheses. Our system is designed for Russian and clearly outperforms the winner of SpellRuEval-2016 competition. We show that language model size has the greatest influence on spelling correction quality. We also experiment with different types of features and show that morphological and semantic information also improves the accuracy of spellchecking."

	 - abstract = "Part-of-speech (POS) tagging and chunking have been used in tasks targeting learner English; however, to the best our knowledge, few studies have evaluated their performance and no studies have revealed the causes of POS-tagging/chunking errors in detail. Therefore, we investigate performance and analyze the causes of failure. We focus on spelling errors that occur frequently in learner English. We demonstrate that spelling errors reduced POS-tagging performance by 0.23{\%} owing to spelling errors, and that a spell checker is not necessary for POS-tagging/chunking of learner English."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/L12-1423/]",
	 - abstract = "This paper presents some novel results on Chinese spell checking. In this paper, a concise algorithm based on minimized-path segmentation is proposed to reduce the cost and suit the needs of current Chinese input systems. The proposed algorithm is actually derived from a simple assumption that spelling errors often make the number of segments larger. The experimental results are quite positive and implicitly verify the effectiveness of the proposed assumption. Finally, all approaches work together to output a result much better than the baseline with 12{\%} performance improvement."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/L12-1620/]",
	 - title = "Incorporating an Error Corpus into a Spellchecker for {M}altese",
	 - abstract = "This paper discusses the ongoing development of a new Maltese spell checker, highlighting the methodologies which would best suit such a language. We thus discuss several previous attempts, highlighting what we believe to be their weakest point: a lack of attention to context. Two developments are of particular interest, both of which concern the availability of language resources relevant to spellchecking: (i) the Maltese Language Resource Server (MLRS) which now includes a representative corpus of c. 100M words extracted from diverse documents including the Maltese Legislation, press releases and extracts from Maltese web-pages and (ii) an extensive and detailed corpus of spelling errors that was collected whilst part of the MLRS texts were being prepared. We describe the structure of these resources as well as the experimental approaches focused on context that we are now in a position to adopt. We describe the framework within which a variety of different approaches to spellchecking and evaluation will be carried out, and briefly discuss the first baseline system we have implemented. We conclude the paper with a roadmap for future improvements."
	- kommentar = "ei fullformsordliste kombinert med eit korpus av feil:korrekt-ordpar, there:their, principle:principal. Denne artikkelen er relevant for oss."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/L10-1077/]",
	 - title = "A Large List of Confusion Sets for Spellchecking Assessed Against a Corpus of Real-word Errors",
	 - abstract = "One of the methods that has been proposed for dealing with real-word errors (errors that occur when a correctly spelled word is substituted for the one intended) is the ''``confusion-set'''' approach - a confusion set being a small group of words that are likely to be confused with one another. Using a list of confusion sets drawn up in advance, a spellchecker, on finding one of these words in a text, can assess whether one of the other members of its set would be a better fit and, if it appears to be so, propose that word as a correction. Much of the research using this approach has suffered from two weaknesses. The first is the small number of confusion sets used. The second is that systems have largely been tested on artificial errors. In this paper we address these two weaknesses. We describe the creation of a realistically sized list of confusion sets, then the assembling of a corpus of real-word errors, and then we assess the potential of that list in relation to that corpus."
	- kommentar = "Ekteordsfeil for engelsk. Løysing: Bruke sett av ord som kan forvekslast med kvarandre"

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/L10-1557/]",
	 - abstract = "Many NLP applications need fundamental tools to convert the input text into appropriate form or format and extract the primary linguistic knowledge of words and sentences. These tools perform segmentation of text into sentences, words and phrases, checking and correcting the spellings, doing lexical and morphological analysis, POS tagging and so on. Persian is among languages with complex preprocessing tasks. Having different writing prescriptions, spacings between or within words, character codings and spellings are some of the difficulties and challenges in converting various texts into a standard one. The lack of fundamental text processing tools such as morphological analyser (especially for derivational morphology) and POS tagger is another problem in Persian text processing. This paper introduces a set of fundamental tools for Persian text processing in STeP-1 package. STeP-1 (Standard Text Preparation for Persian language) performs a combination of tokenization, spell checking, morphological analysis and POS tagging. It also turns all Persian texts with different prescribed forms of writing to a series of tokens in the standard style introduced by Academy of Persian Language and Literature (APLL). Experimental results show high performance."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/L08-1322/]",
	 - title = "Using the {W}eb for Language Independent Spellchecking and Autocorrection",
	 - abstract = "This paper presents an algorithm for correcting language errors typical of second-language learners. We focus on preposition errors, which are very common among second-language learners but are not addressed well by current commercial grammar correctors and editing aids. The algorithm takes as input a sentence containing a preposition error (and possibly other errors as well), and outputs the correct preposition for that particular sentence context. We use a two-phase hybrid rule-based and statistical approach. In the first phase, rule-based processing is used to generate a short expression that captures the context of use of the preposition in the input sentence. In the second phase, Web searches are used to evaluate the frequency of this expression, when alternative prepositions are used instead of the original one. We tested this algorithm on a corpus of 133 French sentences written by intermediate second-language learners, and found that it could address 69.9{\%} of those cases. In contrast, we found that the best French grammar and spell checker currently on the market, Antidote, addressed only 3{\%} of those cases. We also showed that performance degrades gracefully when using a corpus of frequent n-grams to evaluate frequencies."

- url = "[https://aclanthology.org/L08-1323/]",
	 - abstract = "This paper presents a context sensitive spell checking system that uses mixed trigram models, and introduces a new empirically grounded method for building confusion sets. The proposed method has been implemented, tested, and evaluated in terms of coverage, precision, and recall. The results show that the method is effective."


https://aclanthology.org/L06-1062/
title = "A Web-based {E}nglish Proofing System for {E}nglish as a Second Language Users",
	 - abstract = "This paper reports findings from the elaboration of a typology of spelling errors for Spanish. It also discusses previous generalizations about spelling error patterns found in other studies and offers new insights on them. The typology is based on the analysis of around 76K misspellings found in real-life texts produced by humans. The main goal of the elaboration of the typology was to help in the im-plementation of a spell checker that detects context-independent misspellings in general unrestricted texts with the most common con-fusion pairs (i.e. error/correction pairs) to improve the set of ranked correction candidates for misspellings. We found that spelling er-rors are language dependent and are closely related to the orthographic rules of each language. The statistical data we provide on spell-ing error patterns in Spanish and their comparison with other data in other related works are the novel contribution of this paper. In this line, this paper shows that some of the general statements found in the literature about spelling error patterns apply mainly to English and cannot be extrapolated to other languages."

