# Wordform generation and analysis details (Paradigms)

**Obsolete**: _The contents of this document may be obsolete (Feb 2024)._

The `Paradigms` section contains a part of speech (in all caps) and tag forms (minus
the part of speech) to generate forms for. The lists of tags here should be
the maximal set that will be generated for any given part of speech. If this
needs to be altered or reduced for any lexical set (i.e., singular only for
Proper nouns, or 3rd person only for specific weather verbs), rules for this
must be defined elsewhere.

If forms will be displayed, but pregenerated by some other rule, there must
be at least one entry for the part of speech. That set of tags will then be
passed to pregenerating functions and ignored, but, if the part of speech is
not set here, this will not happen.

```yaml
Paradigms:
  olo:
    PRON:
      - "Pregenerate"
    N:
      - "Sg+Par"
      - "Sg+Apr"
      - "Sg+Gen"
      - "Pl+Par"
    V:
      - "Ind+Prs+ScSg1"
      - "Ind+Prs+ScSg3"
      - "Ind+Prs+ScPl3"
      - "Ind+Prt+ScSg1"
  liv:
    PRON:
      - "Pregenerate"
    N:
      - "Sg+Nom"
      - "Sg+Gen"
      - "Sg+Dat"
      - ... etc.
```

In the above example: "Pregenerate" is completely arbitrary and serves no programmatic function, however "PRON" being set is important.

## Tag definitions (TagSets, TagTransforms)

Unfortunately it is not yet easy to use the babel and gettext translation
system to define what will be displayed to users. As such, YAML defines these things.

TagTransforms is a dictionary of language pairs, each of which contains
string pairs. Each string pair consists of the tag chunks from output from a
morphological tool (minus tag separator), and then the string that will be displayed to the users.

Each language pair is defined as the source language of the dictionary or
morphological tool, and then the language of the user interface and the formatting of this pair definition is important (see below). If
corresponding tags for the source dictionary - user interface pair are not
available, tags for the dictionary source language - dictionary target
language will be displayed. It may be useful to use aliases here too, but see
existing config files for examples.

```yaml
TagTransforms:
  (olo, rus):
    "V": "v."
    "N": "s."
    "A": "adj."


  (liv, rus):
    "V": "v."
    "N": "s."
    "A": "adj."
```

NOTE: parentheses, comma, and space are important in the language pair
definition. Quotes are optional around the tag chunks on the left side, but
ideal to avoid any potential problem with conversion to strings.

### TagSets

TagSets aren't particularly relevant within the configuration file, but are
meant to be an aid in producing language-specific rules (see elsewhere in the
documentation, or docstrings for now). TagSets are defined first by language
they apply to, but then each tagset consists of a name, and then a list of
tags that goes along with the set.

```yaml
TagSets:
  sme:
    pos: ["N", "V", "A", "Pr", "Po", "Num"]
    type: ["NomAg", "G3", "aktor"]
```

### Multiword lookups

The reader may be configured to allow multiword environments, so, each click
will expand the word selection to include surrounding material. This operation
only respects word boundaries, but does not perform any linguistic computation
on the client side. It also results in more data being sent to the server.
